So now that we worked on the icons, worked on the splash screen, let's configure our project to be ready
to be published.
You can find a guide in the official docs under guides
if you click on running on device
and yes I'm not so happy with the naming of this point, it's not obvious that this also shows you how
to prepare your apps for publishing.
There you can switch between ios and Android and the first part is always about running it in development mode
but then at the bottom, we're talking about building the app for production and for an iOS app, here we
first of all need to remove an exception which was made for a local host, that was made so that our app
can communicate with our development server but we don't need that anymore.
So let's go to Xcode and there, go to your info plist,
there you can go to app transport security settings and under exception domains, you have localhost, simply
delete this row by clicking on it and pressing backspace,
so that's the first step.
The next step is that you need to configure a release scheme,
so basically the build process to build it for production which optimizes it and thereafter, once you
have set this up, you can build it.
Now before we do that, some words about configuring your app, in that info plist as you probably already
noticed,
you can do a lot of configuration, you can change the name of your app as it will be displayed, for example
below the icon, there is the bundle identifier which you can fine tune to your needs,
this is like a unique identifier for your app
and here react native gave you one by default but of course you can use your own one
and the common rule is to basically use an inverted url so you could use com. and then your
url if you have one or a fictionary url which could represent your company,
so whatever you want, here I'll name this rncourse.awesomeplaces, whatever you want,
however here, this one is now taken. Thereafter,
you can see if you want to restrict the device orientations so you supported interface orientations,
right now everything is supported here and so on,
so here you can configure your app for iOS.
Once here done with all that, you can go to the menu and then product scheme, added scheme and there
you can now switch from debug in the build configuration to release.
Now hit close and now go to product build,
this will now build your project for production, so it will compile everything, bundle everything together
and give you a file that you could publish to the Apple store, to the App Store.
Now publishing that also requires some steps through which I'll walk you
but this is the first important step here.
So now the build succeeded and you may ignore any warnings as long as it does,
now we can publish it, before we do that,
let's also prepare the Android app though.
For that we can again have a look at the official docs on the react native documentation, switch to Android,
we have the development documentation first and then for building for production,
there is a separate guide,
no one knows why,
so we can just visit that guide. Now in
here we learn how to create a signed APK,
we already have an APK running on our simulator,
that was an unsigned one,
now just as for ios where we also needed to do this for development but where Xcode took care of it,
we also need to sign our apps for Android before shipping them. We need to do that manual here
but it's not that difficult.
First of all we need to create a sign in key and for that you can copy that command and execute it in
your terminal or a command prompt,
this also works on Windows but as it says here for windows, you need to navigate into this folder first
in the command prompt.
So I will do this on Mac OS here,
I'll go back into my project and there enter this command I
just copied and you can replace the name here,
my release key, keystore in the alias,
I'll leave it at the defaults and just hit enter.
And now you're prompted to enter keystore password,
so I'm going to pick one here,
you need to confirm it
then
a couple of information pieces about you and once you are done, you will have this new file in your project
directory,
this is my release keystore file which is password protected.
Now as a next step, we should move it into the Android/app folder of our project,
so let's do that,
let's move it all the way into Android app, yes
move and thereafter we need to edit this file gradle.properties.
Now notice this is not in our project folder but in your user folder on your operating system, then I'm
going to copy all that content here
and I navigate it into the folder.gradle in my user folder.
If you don't have that file yet, simply create it, normal text editor suffices,
just make sure it's gradle.properties, no .txt at the end or anything like that
and then you can just paste in the content.
If you change the key name or the alias, make sure to adjust it here too and then enter your store password
here
and once you did this, save that file and now we need to edit our configuration in the Android app build
gradle file,
so again back in the project folder. You don't need to override default config, simply add the sign
in configs part here,
so I'm going to copy that and then go into app and there build.gradle and below the default config
object, add the sign in configs object you just copied and also add this line here to the release object
under build types, so build types, here I'll add this. Thereafter,
you can generate the release APK by running this command in your project folder,
so first cd Android into that folder and then that command I just copied
and now this will build and sign your project for deployment.
This should now complete successfully,
now as a side note because I also mentioned it for iOS, if you want to change some config for Android,
you do this in the source folder under Main and then in the Android manifest xml file. There
you can change the app icon though it should be ic launcher to use to the launcher icon we created.
You can also set up the app name, though here
this automatically will refer to another file where
this name is managed, under resources values in this strings xml file,
here you can change the app name,
it's managed by react native though so we can always also change this in the app.json file
and if you rerun npm run ios or android, here it then also updates so that is something you can
do.
And if you ever needed to add anything else like permissions and so on, have a look at the Android manifest.
There you also have your package name
so like the bundle identifier for iOS and this will become important later too. With that
however we build both apps, we built Android and iOS, let's next have a look at how we deploy them.